What is keyword cannibalization in SEO

What is cannibalization in SEO? Should we be worried? How do we check it?

The cannibalization of keywords or keywords in SEO occurs when you try to position yourself with the same word or phrase in Google using several pages or posts within the same domain.
This causes many times that Google does not know which one to choose and creates a "dance" of positions, showing it once again. With our Digital Marketing Services <strong><a href="https://rankinggoal.com/seo-company-in-patna/">SEO company in Patna</a></strong> , you can use our services to rank your keyword on Google.
In addition, the pages may appear and disappear in the Google results as if by magic.
Suppose you intend that several of your contents appear positioned in different results. In that case, the most appropriate thing is to place YouTube videos and images, search for more niche and specialized words, or even create other content in other domains (never copying).
How to detect an SEO cannibalization problem
To check if we have cannibalization of keywords in SEO, we can do searches on Google and see the results over time.
As you can see, this system is quite rudimentary and inefficient, and rigorous.
The best thing is to use an SEO tool like XOVI that allows you to monitor all the words and see in a moment if this situation occurs (seeing the position evolution graph and checking if there are jumps) to solve it as soon as possible.
How to fix a cannibalization
In many cases, the fastest thing to do is to make a 301 redirection from the least important URL to the most important. Still, you should always check that the page is not ranking for other keywords.
Another option is to change the title's keywords and content to cover new related aspects.
If, for example, you have a cannibalization problem generated by two pages with very similar content like this:
«Best keyboards for PC» domain.com/best-keyboards-pc
"The best computer keyboards" domain.com/los-best-computer-keyboards
Google understands that they are similar posts. Therefore, depending on the search, the link strategy, and the authority of each page, Google may show one result or another.
We must adapt the one that receives fewer visits and converts less, for example, leaving it like this:
"Best keyboards for PC" domain.com/best-keyboards-pc (we keep it)
"Best keyboards to play" domain.com/best-keyboards-to-play (we are looking for specialization)
And in this way, we can solve the cannibalization problem.
As you can see, we must apply a redirection of the trip URL to the new one (the redirection plugin does it by itself) or create new content and redirect the less optimized version to the good one.
The important thing is to look for more niche phrases to differentiate each content.
How long does it take for Google to display new results?
Once the cannibalization problem is solved, it may take a few days for Google to realize and solve it.
You can use Google Search Console to speed up the process by sending the URLs again.
Be careful to add your home keywords in your photos, tags, or post titles. It is a widespread error that I see in countless blogs.
Remember, use a unique phrase to rank for each page and no more.
I want to know your opinion!
Have you heard of SEO cannibalization? Has it ever happened to you? How have you solved it? Did this post help you?
